we're gonna be doing something amazing
this week and you're gonna be ready to
get back at it on Monday or or you're
actually gonna bust ass this weekend as
well and make all of your magical dreams
come true
either one I'm down for depending on
what your goals are all right guys we're
gonna dive right into the first question
here it is this is from Lauren Cisco and
by the way today's episode is brought to
you by toughen the [__] up buttercup
that's the shirt dig on it you can get
yours now at shop that impact Theory
dot-com all right Lauren Cisco connect
in box I've heard you talk about using
bright lines in your life what are your
bright lines you live by daily how did
you incorporate the lines into your life
did you just decide one day or just do
it or was there some trial and error so
first of all bright lines are lines you
just don't cross for whatever reason
it's something that is that important to
you that you're not gonna cross that
line so the bright lines that I have in
my life are I'll just go through sort of
by moment so the first one is that I get
out of bed in ten minutes or less so I
have a real problem I don't know what it
is with morning people I am NOT a
morning person I absolutely hate
mornings I find it very difficult to get
out of bed
so whatever the chemical is that your
brain clears up that wakes you up mine
is really slow at clearing that so left
to my own devices I would lay in bed for
a very very very long time know what's
fascinating is I guess technically I am
left my own devices but left of my
natural inclinations is probably a
better way to say that I would lay there
for a very long time it's a very famous
story of mine at this point that when I
was living in London I would lay in bed
for hours hours 3-4 hours at a time
because I didn't want to get a bed so I
had to put excuse me I can't get rid of
this cough I put a bright line in that I
get out of bed in ten minutes or less
all right next one I won't say that it's
a bright line that I go to the gym so
that would probably be a little unfair
although that's a one of the first
things that I make sure that I do if I'm
crunched for time so I'll drop other
things I believe it or not I'll drop
meditation long before I would drop
working out
partly because I hate it and so I put it
very
hi but that that isn't a bright line in
true honest fashion I never eat my
breakfast before 7 a.m. that is a bright
line now like today I woke up at 3:40 in
the morning just woke up got out of bed
so by 7:00 I was hungry
but I actually end up eating until about
8:30 so but I have a bright line that I
don't eat under any circumstances before
7 a.m.
I don't eat before I feed my children
who are dogs but I don't eat before them
that's a big thing for me
psychologically so that's my next one
and then the amount that I eat is also a
bright line so the amount that I eat for
an entire day is always pre-planned
ahead of time I know exactly what that's
gonna be because if I don't do that then
I get fat so that is another one of my
bright lines those are really my only
bright lines I have other things that
are like incredibly important although I
will say that I have a bright line
around and this is sort of hard to pin
down to a time but I have a bright line
around if I'm awake Monday through
Friday if I'm awake I'm either working
or working out so those are my bright
lines there are some other stuff that
God is more like belief system identity
stuff but those are like the bright
lines I wouldn't say that I got to them
by trial-and-error I would say that I
got to them by knowing what I need a
bright line around so with food for
instance it's very easy for me to
overeat it's very easy for me to slip in
calories without really paying attention
if I were to eat when I was hungry I
would basically be eating all the time
so putting in bright lines has been
something that's been incredibly
incredibly useful for me but I also it's
not that I only do things that I have a
bright line for so I also do a lot of
things through habit you guys have
already heard my morning routine a
thousand times so I won't go into that
but that's bright lines those are mine
alright next question is from Dillon
Charles flunked this is on Facebook how
do you completely start over in life
when your past mistakes won't let go of
you all right
let's be really clear you won't let go
of your past mistakes that that is just
the gospel truth
so you've got to work at letting those
go now the only thing that I've found
that works is the following to
understand that they don't move you
towards your goals so for me putting in
not quite a bright line but really
taking the impact theory belief system
which by the way you can download now by
going to impact you recom signing up for
our newsletter which I kill myself to
make those newsletters [__] amazing
so go there now and one of your
incentives for doing so is the 25 point
bullet belief system those are the 25
things you need to do to your mind to
make sure that you're optimized for
success one of those things is we only
believe that which moves us towards our
goals now the reason that I put that
into my own life is because I found that
I would obsess over things that had
happened in the past either something
that happened to me or something that I
did and you get into this really weird
cycle that is absolutely obsessive
because of that it becomes hardwired
because of that it becomes easier to
think about because of that you think
about it more often
it begins to just occupy a lot of cycles
and crowds out your ability to get other
things done so I didn't know how to
break out of that pattern because like
you I thought it was something that was
happening to meet rather than something
that I could control and so I had to
flip it and realize okay I'm in my life
at the absolute foundational layer of
everything that I do and believe I'm
going to make sure that it's something
that moves me towards my goals
so if obsessing over the past move me
towards my goals I would do it but it
doesn't and so I don't that is the only
thing that I've found that I have a
belief that is so powerful and
all-encompassing in my life that I
should do what moves me towards my goals
that anything even something that I
would otherwise be prone to obsessively
return to I use basically techniques
from cognitive behavioral therapy also
known as CBT where I will stop myself it
doesn't mean that I'm not having those
initial thoughts but it means that I
interrupt those initial thoughts because
it's not moving me towards my goal I
move that aside and then I go focus on
the thing that is going to move me
towards my goal which may be an
empowering thought to reframe that
negative thing is something positive to
remind myself that I'm good I'm worthy
I'm whatever I need to do in order to
get moving and
going or just ask myself have you
learned from that mistake and if you
have then go
you've got the lesson move forward
nothing else matters
cycling through it isn't going to help
so that is my advice it's very doable
cognitive behavioral therapy interrupts
those patterns make them habit loop
triggers for something empowering all
right next up Dave Hays Tom I'd like to
think I'm a super positive person at
time at times but then I have moments
where I think I'm just delusional when
it comes to goals ambitions do you ever
experience the same sort of feelings at
times any advice so yes this is the
reality of being a human you are first
of all never going to be right all the
time yet you have to move forward as if
you are right you have to come to a
conclusion about what is the most Shore
path to your goal and be marching down
that path this is advanced class yet but
you also have to be able to go am i
right so at the same time you're racing
forward as fast as you can you've got to
occasionally check yourself and say is
this actually working is there data that
I can look at what empirical evidence do
I have that I'm actually going in the
right direction
now you want to know where I spend the
vast majority of my time it's in that if
I'm not actively executing and even
sometimes when I am actively executing I
am I'm doing these little checks what's
the data what data points can I look at
so not like it feels right not I want to
do it is there data that I can look at
that tells me my mother going in the
right direction or not so I have that
feeling all the time
I'm trying actively to delude myself
since the people that are most
delusional are the happiest I'm trying
to delude myself to make sure that I'm
going and going with enthusiasm I'm
trying to delude myself that despite the
fact that I know next to nothing of what
I'm going to altum Utley need to know in
order to succeed that I keep going that
is fundamental and critical and then
whilst I'm deluding myself I'm checking
to make sure that that delusion never
gets out of hand that I'm still grounded
in reality that I'm still checking
myself against data and all of those
things are going to be what allow
to keep this from spilling over into
something that's counterproductive
because there is a level of delusion
that's useful and then there's a level
of delusion that is it's gonna break you
down it's gonna take you in the wrong
direction so you've really got to check
yourself against that now I'm getting
good at that is not easy but leaning on
data data data data what is the external
world telling you and not being afraid
to see that the external world is
telling you that you're going in the
wrong direction and then being able to
pivot period new paragraph the other
thing you have to think about is getting
good at being strategic and this is why
I'm always reading business books I'm
always reading about the mind and I'm
always trying to [__] learn about
what industry I'm going into so right
now right now boys and girls
I am enmeshed in the world of comics and
I'm trying to ask an answer some very
fundamental questions about why the
industry is so broken so first of all
you have to understand it well enough to
see that it is broken then second you've
got to understand it well enough that
you can actually figure out what are the
real answers to this so diving in
reading what you can finding out who are
the influencers in that space who are
the real thought leaders who's got
insight into this that's gonna be
incredibly usable once you have that
then you begin compiling your own world
view of that thing but you've got to
practice that you've got to get in and I
really stopped midstream there there's a
whole universe of [__] that goes around
how you get good at being strategic and
breaking things down which remind me I
should write a newsletter about that but
that ultimately is what you need to do
you've got to get good at the strategy
so then this is why this is important
you're doing the nice little bits of
self-delusion over here but over here
you really [__] good at strategy and
you really know how to move towards your
goals and you're checking yourself
against data and that's how you keep
yourself sane and moving in the right
direction all right Jason
duder lean yep you speak about Fanning
the flames of interest into a burning
passion could you walk us through what
that looks like what are the steps
what's the process obstacles or
difficulties to expect and guard against
here's how it goes first of all each and
every one of you needs to avoid what
kevin kelly calls premature optimization
then you need to go out and experience a
whole lot of stuff now
premature optimization is where somebody
thinks off the jump oh this thing I'm
kind of interested in that I'm gonna
optimize my life for that thing the
reason this happens is god forbid you
went to a high school where they are lee
already made you choose like more or
less a major which they do in the UK and
I think it's problematic and some
schools do here in the US then certainly
by the time he gets college everyone is
forcing you they want you to pick a
major then when you get out you've got
to get a job and you want to get a job
that makes sense with the major that you
just got you took on all this debt and
you spent all this time and so that's
premature optimization you literally
made a decision when you were 18 maybe
17 terrifying and now the whole rest of
your life is an echo of that random
[__] decision you made before your
brain was finished developing think
about that for a second your brain
doesn't stop developing until you're 25
so at 18 and that's late honestly most
people are thinking about it at 17 or
even 16 you're making a decision you're
prematurely optimizing you haven't
experienced enough stuff you don't know
what really lights that initial spark of
interest and so you go down this path
you're it you're at 25 you having a
quarter life crisis because you don't
love what you do it's a [__] mess so
my advice is to go experience a whole
lot of things now whether that's taking
a gap year which I would never have done
so trust me when I say that's not your
only option but you need to be
experiencing a lot of stuff trying a lot
of things taking a lot of classes
watching videos tutorials reading
learning like figuring out what it is
that you go whoa I really like that
thing it's not a passion it's not gonna
spark off like that it's just experience
you find something ah it piques your
curiosity you're more interested in that
than the next thing okay now we're going
to engage with it this is step two
engagement is different than just going
and experiencing so that's sort of a
very non-committal dilettante sort of
way of involving yourself as something
just experiencing it the next is I
really like this and I'm gonna go hard
on it so if I took a dance class now I'm
gonna sign up for eight years where the
dance classes are something I'm gonna
start going and I'm really gonna see if
I like this and
in that engagement process where you're
starting to read about it you talking to
other people about it you're gonna find
out if the more you get into it the more
you're like whoa this went from an
interest to like a real fascination
fascination is that next gate if it
turns into a fascination and you're like
whoa the more I learn about this more I
want to learn and the more that I get
just excited about this more energy it
gives me okay that's a good chance then
that that thing can become a passion now
we're gonna go through the process of
actually gaining mastery now I think
passion is like love meaning it needs to
be a reciprocal thing so as you go down
the process of gaining mastery those
skills need to then be useful in the
real world and the echo that you get
back from the real world that those
skills are valuable to other people the
more you're gonna be like oh I feel good
about myself so now you had something
that was interesting it turned into a
fascination the more you engaged with it
and now as you gain skills you're
actually able to serve other people who
then give you that positive
reinforcement where you like whoa not
only am I getting good at this like that
getting good has real-world utility and
it impacts other people and then they
echoed that back and that makes me feel
really good about myself so I enjoy it
in and of itself and I enjoy that
element of techne where as a social
species I am helping other parts of my
tribe and that feels really good and
it's something that other people value
that is the passion now fanning the
flames is a slightly different thing to
the side of that which is in that
process which I think it starts pretty
early probably starts back at the
interest phase as you get interested in
something you're going to start doing
things like what I'm doing right now two
seconds before the camera started
rolling I was not talking like this I
did not have this energy level I wasn't
using my hands as much or my face as
much oddly enough but embodying
something is absolutely critical so a
big part of gaining a passion is telling
other people what you're up to allowing
yourself to embody the excitement
telling yourself and other people that
you're excited about it and actually
embodying that excitement embodying that
passion which then your brain goes whoa
we're getting really excited about this
you know where our volume is getting
higher we're getting more energetic
we're moving more all of that stuff
forces the brain to say this must
actually be really important and when
you start doing that
then you're beginning to hardwire your
brain for that and you're beginning to
associate the emotion with that thing
that you're doing it is something that
you can very much do as long as it's
based on something real I find that this
is pretty ineffective if there isn't
that real core level of interest but if
you have that real core level of
interest then all of a sudden everything
that you do just magnifies that over and
over and over and by the way this works
incredibly well in your relationships
think of it as feeding the fire so you
still need the spark you still need
something to actually be burning but
once it's burning stoking it putting
wood on the fire giving it oxygen all of
those things which are embodying that
passion telling other people what you're
up to learning it and getting excited
about that seeing how your skills are
actually useful in the real world seeing
who you can help that kind of stuff and
then really focus on that so like when
people write me or they stop me in the
street and they say dude like your
content has really changed my life I
really take time to let that hit me I
take time to feel that emotion and when
I'm doing something that's hard and I
don't want to be doing it I lean on that
those moments are the things that end up
seeing you through so there it is Johnny
Sperling this is from YouTube what
advice would you give to someone in a
very happy relationship whose only
concern is that bright lines are not
quite in alignment is this a serious red
flag absolutely not my wife and I do not
have the same bright lines like my wife
one of her bright lines clearly is
working on the gym that's so crazy to me
I literally don't understand that I hope
she watches this episode because I
really wish she would stop making the
gym a bright line start prioritizing
other things but to her it is an
absolute must so cool
respect it the fact that we don't share
our bright lines just means that our
goals aren't exactly the same I think
that's absolutely fine we share some
goals so in the company there are a lot
of things that we would have the same
bright lines around but there's not
she's back
did you just how did you get back so
fast Wow
my wife can teleport this is an amazing
new trick so welcome back did you hear
what I was saying
yeah I was saying that to you the gym is
a bright line and I wish that it wasn't
and there are times where I think you'd
be much better off doing something else
but nonetheless I accept that it is one
of your bright lines so anyway the point
of that is I don't think that you need I
don't think that you will have I don't
even think it's logical to try to have
the same bright lines as somebody else
because they're very specific to your
goals are very specific like my wife
bounds out of bed like that's just a
thing for her like from the moment her
eyes wake up she's just awake she seems
like an alien to me I don't understand
it
but nonetheless that's her experience so
she makes fun of me because it'll take
me like an hour to be at her energy
level from like I open second one so
it's pretty fascinating so she doesn't
need that kind of bright line so yeah
there you go I wouldn't be tense but
having core values that match that I
would pay a lot of attention to beau
Monte a I have a hard time with bright
lines because I find myself a few days
weeks in saying that was a dumb thing to
draw a bright line around do you ever
encounter this if so what do you do I do
not encounter that because I have a
bright line just to be clever around
making sure that what I promised myself
I'm gonna do I scrutinize long before I
make a bright line so I don't go oh
that's interesting bright line I go okay
that's interesting I want to explore
that more what would that look like how
would that serve me what would it really
feel like for me how is it playing out
in my life does it actually have
real-world implications and this isn't
all something that I sit down in one
quick session like that's what I'm
thinking about I may think about it for
weeks
a month more six months who knows and it
depends on what kind of impact that it's
gonna have in my life so I don't you
don't lead with bright lines to create a
habit let's be really clear about that
so habits are something different
getting in routines and habits is a
place to start and then if you find like
I have a morning routine I have habits
that I do every morning but they there
are things that I'm very flexible on
that creates a lot of mobility in my
life if I wake up late or something like
that then I'll just shave this out of
the other bright lines [__] like
I if I have a bright line I don't [__]
with my bright lines I do my bright
lines
so that's the whole point of a bright
line they are absolutely non-negotiable
so be very careful about what you put
bright lines around make sure it is
something that's leading you towards
your goal and I think it better to make
it a habit and a routine first and see
if it actually has an advantage if it's
something that's important and if it's
something that you struggle with and
think that it's really really important
and you need that bright line and just
to give you a really quick metaphor to
think about bright lines I find it very
easy to eat zero Doritos I find it very
hard to eat one Dorito so that's a
bright line just don't [__] with Doritos
there you have it
Janelle Lesley from Facebook how do you
keep from talking yourself out of
breaking or making exceptions with your
own bright lines when you're first
trying to get those into your routine
okay so just like I was saying there's a
difference between a routine and a
bright line so I don't lead with a
bright line with few exceptions when I
when I diet that I'll do just like hard
and fast bright line out of nowhere I
need to really think about how other
people can do that successfully where I
get that is my identity so my identity
is wrapped up and if I promise myself
I'm gonna do something I'm gonna [__]
do it that's big to me even if nobody's
looking that's really big and so I know
how I want to feel about myself when I
say that and so I adhere to it just
because of that and I cannot tell you
that that desire to feel a certain way
about myself because I've constructed an
identity I've told other people what my
identity is and I want to feel that like
I want to be impressed with myself
that's the reality I want to feel that
like pride when I say it or when I'm all
alone and I'm thinking about who I am
and how I'm acting that feeling to me is
so intoxicating that I have to act in
accordance with that that probably comes
up in my life it's got to be close to 10
times a day a day because I'll want to
relax I'll want to let off the gas pedal
I'll have just been doing something and
I'll be like exhausted and bored with it
and I want to go like do something fun
and I'll be like no one will know like I
could literally just go do this and no
one would know and yeah I would know and
so that keeps me in check so identity
dry
behavior that's the big one Tracy Hughes
Tom I'm a 68 year old woman can I just
say that is beyond amazing that you're
here in this feed I love you the most
you're a young man can we talk I'm
totally all dude pain everywhere parts
falling off out is there hope for me yes
now Tracy I want you to lean in because
I'm gonna say all the things to you that
I so desperately want my mother to
embody none of us know how much time we
have left I could have an aneurysm and
die before the end of this ama I can
have an aneurysm and died before the end
of this sentence so since that is true
and none of us have a guaranteed amount
of time the only thing that's [__]
with you is the physical pain and then
the belief that no one makes it past a
certain age so you know now that you're
at some point in your life that things
have changed that there's a diminishing
amount of time on the other side of you
okay I fully get that acknowledge all of
that that's actually going to influence
the things you do you're probably not
gonna do really long-term projects but
now let me introduce you to the idea
from Eckhart Tolle the only thing that's
real the only thing that's real is right
now this moment so the only reason I do
long-term projects is because right now
in this moment they make me feel amazing
I love that striving towards something
and building towards something that's
long-term but let me tell you if I find
that like if in fact if I go to the
doctor tomorrow and they diagnosed me
with a terminal disease and they say it
look dude you got six months a year I
would immediately stop with long term
plans and I would immediately optimize
for things make me feel awesome right
now so your goal is to say whatever
you're comfortable with if it's things
that are three years out five years out
if that feels like a good medium range
goal because look the average life
expectancy I think here in the u.s. is
78 so I mean you've got at least 10
years
you're not average you wouldn't be in
this feed if you were so you've probably
got let's call it 90 years 95 years so
now we need to do two things one you're
gonna optimize for things that make you
feel alive right now
I can't Tracy I've built a billion
dollar company
I've got a lot of money it's [__]
crazy I never expected it but can I tell
you when I slide a
a $2.99
into a four cent comic books leave the
amount of pleasure that I get out of
even I have to laugh at how much fun I
have doing that it's like this whole
meditative process for me to put it in
turn it over close it tape it closed put
it in its nice organizational place I
get a fiendish amount of joy out of that
so it does not need to be complicated it
doesn't need to be expensive but find
things that you love doing right now
there's gonna be something that's just
deadly simple that you can immerse
yourself in whatever that is crafting
find that thing
do that thing like engage with a whole
bunch of stuff go shock people by
learning new things learning is another
key go learn learn learn and this is the
thing I really want my mom to do become
a silver sniper join a csgo team or a
destiny team or a fortnight team and go
learn to play video games you will be
startled what it does to your brain all
right now let's talk about the physical
pain element so we've got to get rid of
the inflammation right now so biggest
thing that you can do to get rid of
inflammation is stop eating sugar
altogether period it's hiding in more
things and you can possibly imagine next
cut out carbohydrates the only carbs
that you should intake I'm gonna be
controversial right now but trust me
secretly between you and I if you do
this I think that it's gonna work if you
the only carbs you can take er from
vegetables you're gonna be laughing so
get your carbs from vegetables
don't touch sugar and then I'm gonna
whisper this one try a ketogenic diet it
doesn't work for everybody but for the
people that works for it was utterly
transformative for me I had wrist pain
bad wrist pain for 15 years I had to ice
my wrist every night since I was like 21
or 22 I'm just crazy
went high-fat keto and they're different
first I went keto now I maintain mostly
at high fat that was utterly
transformative for me where you're
getting your fat from matters greatly go
look up a dude named Mark Sisson he will
take you weigh-in
in fact our most recent episode of
health theory is another amazing episode
from a woman that did a whole keto
transformations absolute incredible
watch that she'll give you some of the
emotional juice as well as some of the
what
to do alright it was a really long
answer but Tracy I'm I am so amped about
people that are in your age bracket I
will say that you're still young that it
is the mindset of I've still got a a lot
of years and even if I didn't I can
still have a lot of fun right now
and now is all that we have David Kim
what are the top five priorities on your
most important things list do you have
to finish the first priority before
moving on to the next one or do you work
on multiple of them per day okay so the
top five priorities in my list aren't
gonna be very interesting to you guys
but it's stuff like we have a Content
problem right now which I'm deeply
distressed about so we're gonna have to
get way better at pulling Clips so
that's become like an absolute obsession
of mine it's things like figuring out
what's going on in the comic book world
which trust me that has like a lot of
really specific [__] like there are
companies that were looking at buying uh
like like I said none of that is gonna
be really interesting to you I do put
them in rough priority order but the
reality is some things can be checked
off your list and some can't like
there's two companies right now that
we're considering buying and so it's
like back and forth and each one of them
needs something different and a lot of
times we're waiting and so it'll be like
put this list together make sure that
you get that sent out but it's part of
like a big grouping of things under that
heading huh so yeah the key is just to
know exactly what steps you should be
doing what you need to be executing
against and make sure that it's things
you can do so that it there should be
very little if any things that are like
think about it should be do this put
this list together send this contact
that person and ask these five questions
that kind of thing so make sure that
your list is very actionable very to do
and I'm always there's always a lot of
stuff on my list so one of my things is
that's why I put them in priority order
because excuse me at any one time there
might be a hundred things and my
important things list but the reality is
that I may be only able to get to let's
say seven or eight any
day so that's how we do it all right
Dylan
purists YouTube Tom please share with us
how one could leave the delusion of
thinking small consistently and play in
the rare air ok this is something that
you can train yourself to do and here's
how I think of it
Elon Musk is gonna terraform Mars that's
all I need to say to myself Elon Musk is
gonna terraform Mars and all of a sudden
I'm like oh yeah like [__] I'm thinking
really small so pushing yourself to go
to that next level that next level that
next level until it's so absurdly big
that it's that's not even true I was
gonna say so absurdly big that it
terrifies you but it's really like the
big thinking comes down to what do you
really want to accomplish if I said
whatever you were gonna try you were
gonna succeed that's a very famous
question I am sadly not thinking of this
on the spot if you knew that you were
gonna succeed at whatever you tried what
would you try so for me like my whole
thing is I want to pull people out of
the matrix who's done that the best not
pulled them out of the matrix but use
the path that I think is the right path
which is narrative so who's done
narrative the best Disney okay Disney is
a massive company they've been in
business for like 75 or 80 years I mean
it's just absolutely crazy so okay cool
I'm going to outperform them since
they've done at the best and have no
interest in being second want to be
first okay there it is now that's not
terraforming Mars by any stretch of the
imagination but [__] that's pretty big
so thinking like that I think it's
important because one you're gonna be
able to rally people are gonna be able
to get them excited but you've got to
back all the way back from a 75 80 year
time horizon - what do I do today so
that's where I find that people break
down it's not that they're not able to
dream big they can dream big but they
can't execute big and that's where I
think people really fall down and the
one key to all of this to being able to
execute big to allow yourself to believe
that you can execute against that is to
believe that you can learn anything so I
was just telling somebody last night
that it what was I gonna say so blanked
because the person I was with I'll just
say this because my mind is like Skitch
out if you guys don't know Tony Gonzalez
a football player he's amazing check him
out
that dudes mindset absolutely incredible
I invited him on the show in fact that's
what I was with last night if you're
wondering where I'm bringing this up and
he said that he didn't want to until he
conquers the next part of his life and I
thought Jesus for somebody that's done
what he's done to be like it's not
enough yet that's pretty interesting
so executing big the key is that you've
got to believe that you can do anything
you set your mind to you've got to be
you've got to believe that you're able
to execute against all of that stuff
that you can learn that and that really
is the key to go into something that's
completely unknown and as I was telling
Tony last night if I were to tomorrow
wake up and have Disney studio at my
control I think I would [__] it up so I
know that I have to become someone new
in order to execute against that vision
and it's your willingness to become that
person to accept that you're not that
person right now today but that you can
become that person that's the important
part so what I want you guys all to
believe is that humans are designed to
adapt we are the ultimate adaptation
machine we can learn anything we set our
minds to now you may not want to learn
it and that's good evidence that this is
not a fascination that's gonna turn into
a passion this is something that you
should avoid but if you can answer the
question affirmatively that do I want to
know more about this than anyone else in
the world if the answer is yes that's a
path to go down because once you're
saying yes to that then you're gonna go
in and learn the things you need to do
to become extraordinary and if you're
willing to put in the effort while it
may take you longer than somebody else
you will get there in the end if you
keep at it keep at it keep at it because
the people that win are not the smartest
it is always the people that keep at it
it's the people that persevere that's
just truth man now being smart helps yay
I really wish I was a lot smarter so but
I know that I'll beat 99.999% of the
people that play regardless of level of
intelligence because most people just
drop out
Karen Coonan doderer Gounod oder Karen
Gounod oder man I'm curious how close I
am with that one you've talked about in
one of your videos that you didn't feel
you were good at anything how did you
overcome that and make yourself believe
in
yourself what I've said was I don't have
natural talent in anything so as a kid
it was really doing things that I got
positive feedback from somebody so my
dad once told me that he thought that I
was better behind the camera than it was
in front of it and so for a lot of years
I'm actually did think that I was good
at that and then I got so lapped around
in film school and realized that I
didn't have any natural talent that was
an utterly heartbreaking moment and that
was me then having to come to accept
that I am like everyone i am i was born
hopelessly average and my life has
become a mission of seeing what are the
things that i care enough about to
become extraordinary and then putting in
the time and energy and effort to
actually become extraordinary at that
thing and i am utterly astonished at the
breadth of things that you can become
good at if you're willing to invest the
time and energy so my thing is don't
limit yourself to what you think you
have a natural inclination towards limit
yourself to what makes you feel more
alive so it starts with an interest ooh
that is cool I'm interested then by
engagement it turns into a fascination
through the gaining of mastery becomes a
real passion like that's the spectrum of
things you want to deal with not like am
I good at it am I not good at it for
instance I'm terrible at math and yet
that was one of the things that I had to
get better at I'm still terrible at high
level math but like functional math I
got a lot better at that was really
useful in business I certainly have
absolutely no excuse me I have no
natural aptitude in that direction so
but that's what my goals demanded one
day I will be over this cough so that's
the key is what are your goals demanding
of you and move in that direction put
the energy in break it down practice it
actually take the time to get good and
that's where you're gonna see that you
start to believe in yourself and I think
that self belief it exists on two planes
plane number one is just I choose to
believe I can learn anything and so
that's gonna give you the willingness to
move forward because humans lead with
belief and the belief the only belief
you need to move forward is that you can
learn and then the second part is
confidence comes from competence so
actually getting good at something I
think there's anything more intoxicating
for a human being than to get good at
something to not have been good at it
one day and then get good at it the next
is is just one of the most amazing
feelings that any human being can have
so I invite you all to go on that
journey all right Alma chairs how can I
achieve higher motivation I'm very
positive maybe too much so I end up
being okay with things when I should
probably be pushing harder okay I want
to make a very clear delineation between
being optimistic being positive and
having low standards what you just told
me is that you're both positive and
optimistic and you have low standards so
that is a deadly combination because you
can feel good it's all possible oh we
[__] up oh it doesn't matter like that
means you just you might be happy and
that's awesome but if you want
fulfillment which is far deeper and
longer lasting than happiness then I
think you need to click over into
holding yourself to a higher standard
really becoming capable of something
that makes you proud becoming capable of
something that serves other people to be
a benefit to the community to your tribe
all of that like that's where life gets
profoundly interesting and where you
feel a deep connection and a deep sense
of well-being which transcends any
momentary happiness so that would be my
thing
hold yourself to a high standard and my
thing look you gotta want something
you've got to want something this is
like a big frustration in my life I find
that most people a don't even want
anything that badly and be they really
haven't taken the time to turn that want
into an absolute crushing need now that
is a fan the flames process I already
went through that earlier in the episode
so I won't do that again
and here's the reality and this was
summed up by Ray Dalio I cannot believe
I blanked on that name for a second Ray
Dalio in his book principles he said I
don't know if the way that I've gone
after my life was such tenacity and high
standards and going for broke I don't
know if that was better than somebody
who optimizes for a stress-free low-key
life I don't know which is better I just
know that
that was the only way I could have lived
my life and that is exactly how I feel I
don't think the way that I go about
things is better I just know that it's
true to who I am and who I want to be
and for that reason it fills me with
excitement it fills me with joy when I'm
going all out when I'm going from broke
even when I have to embody rage to get
people to wake up to snap out of it to
keep going to see where we need to go or
even if it's just aimed at myself even
when I'm embodying rage there is a part
of my brain that is absolutely
intoxicated by the thrill of the pursuit
of greatness the pursuit of greatness is
one of the the primary drivers in my
life so that's something that I want for
you guys not necessarily to have that in
your life I just want you to want
something as badly as I want greatness
because it's fun it's fun to want
something and to pursue it like that so
whatever that is even if it's just
tranquility to pursue it with everything
to give yourself over to it completely I
just I cannot recommend that highly
enough all right
probably last question Freddie sahagn
hey Tom as humans I think the thought of
failing always comes up when making
major life business decisions can you
share with us what you tell yourself in
situations like these I always tell
myself that I will figure it out I will
pivot I will go in whatever direction I
need to I am so confident in my ability
to rebuild to start over to accept
defeat the willingness to be embarrassed
knowing that in that defeat in that
failure I will learn something I will
grow and on a long enough timeline
I will win because I'm collecting all of
these nuggets of wisdom the pain and the
suffering of failing and I'm building
myself into a wiser stronger version of
myself that's more capable and more able
to execute and because I don't build any
of my pride around my success I built
all of my pride around my pursuit
that gets very easy and I just want
people to understand that about me I
take pride in my willingness to stare at
my inadequacies my willingness to
improve my inadequacies and my
willingness to sincerely pursue grand
goals those are the things that I'm
proud of those are the that's the kind
of person that I want to become so it
isn't about the money so if I lost the
money yeah it is what it is it would
suck don't get me wrong I'm not
nonchalant about it but because it's so
powerful and what it facilitates but it
wouldn't damage my sense of self and
that's the important part because I
don't allow my sense of self to be tied
up in that the same for this community
is unbelievable it's unimaginable how
fastest-growing thank you guys literally
kisses to each and every one of you this
is pure madness how fast were growing
but if it all went away tomorrow that
also wouldn't damage my sense of self
what builds my sense of self is when
somebody says I think you're doing that
wrong and I really sincerely stop and
look at it and go wow is there something
that I can use here rather than trying
to shut them down or think of reasons
not to listen to them when I fail I
realize I'm not wasting a second on
worrying about being embarrassed I'm
just thinking what can I learn from this
because I don't want to go through this
again I feel the pain it sucks
but it isn't damaging my sense of self
and I want to learn from it I want to
grow and I want to get better and then
in those moments where I feel like I'm
really trying to solve problems that I
don't know if I'm gonna be able to solve
but I'm so into the process of trying to
solve it that it's fun that I'm enjoying
those moments and going back to Tracy 68
was Tracy going back to Tracy's notion
now is all that you have and doing
things that you love right now that's
absolutely critical alright guys thank
you so much for joining me I really
really appreciate it
remember today's episode is brought to
you by toughen the [__] up buttercup
which I love that sentiment more than I
can tell you it's all about holding
yourself to standards you can get this
shirt you know me it's all about self
signaling go
shop impact theory dot-com get one for
yourself today and then while I'm
thinking about it if you haven't already
signed up for the newsletter you are
missing out I am I'm gonna be honest I'm
murdering those I am pouring myself into
those in a crazy insane way so go there
check it out subscribe now you can
subscribe at impact Theory calm alright
guys thank you so much for joining me as
always be legendary my friends take care
of
[Music]
[Applause]